# Fintech and Investment Management: Blackrock inc.
## Overview and Origin
BlackRock, Inc. is a financial services company founded in 1994 by Larry Fink, Robert S. Kapito, Susan Wagner, and Ralph Schlosstein.

In 1994, BlackRock started as a fixed-income asset management firm for institutional clients. However, as the company evolved, so did the advisory services they offered to their customers. In 2009, Chairman and CEO Larry Fink had the vision to create a global investment management company and become heavily involved in the Exchange-Traded Funds (ETF) market. This vision was highlighted when BlackRock Inc. acquired iShares, which was the largest ETF management firm of its time and still is responsible for roughly 37% of the world's ETF assets. This made BlackRock the largest ETF investment management company globally, with $9.5 trillion in assets under management (AUM).

When BlackRock Inc. first started, the project was funded through founders' private funds, as well as investments made by early purchasers of company stock during the company's lifecycle. As the company grew into the investment giant it has become today, it began to expand using funds acquired through client management fees.
## Business Activities
BlackRock Inc. was established in 1994 with the goal of providing institutional asset management for large companies. Managing institutional assets is no small task, but BlackRock Inc. had the idea of managing company risk with investment solutions that are streamlined by the client to be specific to their needs. This set the tone that one large general portfolio isn't necessarily the best way to manage assets and that subaccounts were needed to address different investment needs, such as different risk tolerances and investment objectives, i.e., growth, aggressive growth, income, and stability.

BlackRock Inc. began as a fixed asset management company for institutional investors, managing bonds and other yield-returning commercial and government papers. As the company grew, they began to offer more services and now manage individual investment accounts as well as offering personal financial advisory services. BlackRock Inc. is already the largest ETF servicer and has no minimum AUM (Assets Under Management) requirement to work with an advisor or invest in their products, making it available to people globally.

BlackRock Inc. uses a platform called Aladdin, which specializes in risk analysis and helps BlackRock Inc. optimize portfolios to match investor objectives. It performs investment and portfolio analysis faster and more efficiently than any financial professional could. Doing this cuts down costs on analysts and other supporting staff and allows for a more streamlined decision-making process. Combining this technology with BlackRock's global presence and expertise across various asset classes, it's no wonder they've become the largest player in the investment world.

BlackRock's largest competitors, Fidelity Investments and Vanguard Capital, try to keep up by providing low-cost investment products, ETFs, and various kinds of AI, i.e., robo-advisors, to enhance customer experience and create a more user-friendly and accessible way to invest. Although it may seem to be a daunting task, the emergence of AI and its utilization has proven to keep these companies in the race with the investment giant, BlackRock.
## Landscape
BlackRock Inc. is spread across several different domains. These domains include fintech through the use of AI, asset management of ETFs for personal or institutional investor portfolios, wealth management through financial advisors addressing holistic financial planning, and alternative investing through hedge funds and other alternative financing (altfin) strategies.

One way that BlackRock's fintech domain has changed over the last 5-10 years has been the development of AI and machine learning. These technologies have been used to detect fraud on customer accounts, run investment and portfolio analysis, check customer credit, and create robo-advisors to help guide clients through their investment needs without a financial professional being involved.

Other major companies such as Vanguard, Fidelity, Northwestern Mutual, and J.P. Morgan have been utilizing these technologies to provide competition in this field. For example, companies like Northwestern Mutual use robo-advisors not only to guide prospective clients through the onboarding process, creating a truly one-of-a-kind financial plan for them, but also to remain accessible at all hours of the day for those clients who may feel more involved than others.
## Results
Fintech has helped BlackRock cut costs to provide lower fees for customers looking to invest with the company. Affecting nearly every department under its umbrella, the use of AI and other analysis tools has reduced costs due to their automated nature. Automating every repetitive task or process, such as trade execution and report generation, has reduced customer costs by $30 billion, resulting in 13% of BlackRock's portfolio managers being displaced. In comparison to its competitors, this number is quite significant but scales with the company's size, ultimately saving similar amounts of money.
## Recommedations
Although BlackRock is the largest asset management company in the world, they lack the ability to provide comprehensive personal and business financial planning. While being an industry leader in two of the three parts of comprehensive planning, optimizing and growth, BlackRock overlooks the ability to protect its clients and their families from life's uncertainties. Life insurance is a key component of financial planning and can offer large sums of tax-free dollars. Whole life insurance, which accrues in a cash value account to be used by the policyholder to reduce taxable income in retirement, creates a safety net for policyholders to fall back on and can help cover the ever-increasing cost of tuition. Additionally, in the event of passing, the life insurance death benefit leaves behind a monetary legacy for clients' families, allowing them to grieve without having to worry about financial obligations.

Offering this product would provide a valuable tool in the financial services giant's arsenal, with a trusted name backing the product and the framework of both robo and human advisors already working for the company, facing clients each day. The company already has the framework and the financial firepower to offer the product and the technological power to automate everything from applications to claims. With fintech evolving so quickly, underwriting will no longer need to be handled by a person at a desk; instead, it can be managed through a loop of financial code combing through data using a set of standards that can be designed to approve or decline a client based on the risk they pose.

Life insurance would be a great product for this company to offer because it would create a better overall experience for the client and prevent clients from seeking the product elsewhere. With 99% of all term life insurance policies never being paid out, BlackRock would profit greatly through collecting premiums and increasing the gap between them and their competitors in asset management.
## Sources:
“Aladdin® by BlackRock - software for portfolio management.” BlackRock, https://www.blackrock.com/aladdin. Accessed 21 September 2023.

“Aladdin Wealth™ by BlackRock – wealth management technology.” BlackRock, https://www.blackrock.com/aladdin/products/aladdin-wealth. Accessed 21 September 2023.

“Introducing iShares and ETFs | Themes.” BlackRock, https://www.blackrock.com/il/intermediaries/en/themes/ishares-etf. Accessed 21 September 2023.

Javelosa, June. “Major Firm Announces It's Replacing Its Employees with A.I.” Futurism, https://futurism.com/major-firm-announces-its-replacing-its-employees-with-a-i. Accessed 21 September 2023.

Posey, Mariah. “Term Life Insurance.” Bankrate, 9 May 2023, https://www.bankrate.com/insurance/life-insurance/term-life-insurance/#what. Accessed 21 September 2023.
Scott, Gordon. “5 Biggest ETF Companies.” Investopedia, https://www.investopedia.com/articles/investing/080415/5-biggest-etf-companies.asp. Accessed 21 September 2023.

“Top 100 Asset Manager Managers by Managed AUM - SWFI.” Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute, https://www.swfinstitute.org/fund-manager-rankings/asset-manager. Accessed 21 September 2023.
